Will	the	reader	please	to	cast	his	eye	over	the	following	lines,	and	see	if	he	can	discover	anything	harmful	in
them?
Conductor,	when	you	receive	a	fare,
Punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!
A	blue	trip	slip	for	an	eight-cent	fare,
A	buff	trip	slip	for	a	six-cent	fare,
A	pink	trip	slip	for	a	three-cent	fare,
Punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!
CHORUS
Punch,	brothers!	punch	with	care!
Punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!
I	came	across	these	jingling	rhymes	in	a	newspaper,	a	little	while	ago,	and	read	them	a	couple	of	times.
They	took	instant	and	entire	possession	of	me.	All	through	breakfast	they	went	waltzing	through	my	brain;
and	when,	at	last,	I	rolled	up	my	napkin,	I	could	not	tell	whether	I	had	eaten	anything	or	not.	I	had	carefully
laid	out	my	day's	work	the	day	before	—	thrilling	tragedy	in	the	novel	which	I	am	writing.	I	went	to	my	den
to	begin	my	deed	of	blood.	I	took	up	my	pen,	but	all	I	could	get	it	to	say	was,	"Punch	in	the	presence	of	the
passenjare."	I	fought	hard	for	an	hour,	but	it	was	useless.	My	head	kept	humming,	"A	blue	trip	slip	for	an
eight-cent	fare,	a	buff	trip	slip	for	a	six-cent	fare,"	and	so	on	and	so	on,	without	peace	or	respite.	The	day's
work	was	ruined	—	I	could	see	that	plainly	enough.	I	gave	up	and	drifted	down-town,	and	presently
discovered	that	my	feet	were	keeping	time	to	that	relentless	jingle.	When	I	could	stand	it	no	longer	I	altered
my	step.	But	it	did	no	good;	those	rhymes	accommodated	themselves	to	the	new	step	and	went	on	harassing
me	just	as	before.	I	returned	home,	and	suffered	all	the	afternoon;	suffered	all	through	an	unconscious	and
unrefreshing	dinner;	suffered,	and	cried,	and	jingled	all	through	the	evening;	went	to	bed	and	rolled,	tossed,
and	jingled	right	along,	the	same	as	ever;	got	up	at	midnight	frantic,	and	tried	to	read;	but	there	was
nothing	visible	upon	the	whirling	page	except	"Punch!	punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare."	By	sunrise	I
was	out	of	my	mind,	and	everybody	marveled	and	was	distressed	at	the	idiotic	burden	of	my	ravings	—
"Punch!	oh,	punch!	punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!"
Two	days	later,	on	Saturday	morning,	I	arose,	a	tottering	wreck,	and	went	forth	to	fulfil	an	engagement	with
a	valued	friend,	the	Rev.	Mr.	—	—	—	,	to	walk	to	the	Talcott	Tower,	ten	miles	distant.	He	stared	at	me,	but
asked	no	questions.	We	started.	Mr.	—	—	—	talked,	talked,	talked	as	is	his	wont.	I	said	nothing;	I	heard
nothing.	At	the	end	of	a	mile,	Mr.	—	—	—	said	"Mark,	are	you	sick?	I	never	saw	a	man	look	so	haggard	and
worn	and	absent-minded.	Say	something,	do!"
Drearily,	without	enthusiasm,	I	said:	"Punch	brothers,	punch	with	care!	Punch	in	the	presence	of	the
passenjare!"
My	friend	eyed	me	blankly,	looked	perplexed,	they	said:
"I	do	not	think	I	get	your	drift,	Mark.	Then	does	not	seem	to	be	any	relevancy	in	what	you	have	said,
certainly	nothing	sad;	and	yet	—	maybe	it	was	the	way	you	said	the	words	—	I	never	heard	anything	that
sounded	so	pathetic.	What	is	—	"
But	I	heard	no	more.	I	was	already	far	away	with	my	pitiless,	heartbreaking	"blue	trip	slip	for	an	eight-cent
fare,	buff	trip	slip	for	a	six-cent	fare,	pink	trip	slip	for	a	three-cent	fare;	punch	in	the	presence	of	the
passenjare."	I	do	not	know	what	occurred	during	the	other	nine	miles.	However,	all	of	a	sudden	Mr.	—	—	—
laid	his	hand	on	my	shoulder	and	shouted:"Oh,	wake	up!	wake	up!	wake	up!	Don't	sleep	all	day!	Here	we	are	at	the	Tower,	man!	I	have	talked	myself
deaf	and	dumb	and	blind,	and	never	got	a	response.	Just	look	at	this	magnificent	autumn	landscape!	Look	at
it!	look	at	it!	Feast	your	eye	on	it!	You	have	traveled;	you	have	seen	boaster	landscapes	elsewhere.	Come,
now,	deliver	an	honest	opinion.	What	do	you	say	to	this?"__
I	sighed	wearily;	and	murmured:
"A	buff	trip	slip	for	a	six-cent	fare,	a	pink	trip	slip	for	a	three-cent	fare,	punch	in	the	presence	of	the
passenjare."
Rev.	Mr.	—	—	—	stood	there,	very	grave,	full	of	concern,	apparently,	and	looked	long	at	me;	then	he	said:
"Mark,	there	is	something	about	this	that	I	cannot	understand.	Those	are	about	the	same	words	you	said
before;	there	does	not	seem	to	be	anything	in	them,	and	yet	they	nearly	break	my	heart	when	you	say	them.
Punch	in	the	—	how	is	it	they	go?"
I	began	at	the	beginning	and	repeated	all	the	lines.
My	friend's	face	lighted	with	interest.	He	said:
"Why,	what	a	captivating	jingle	it	is!	It	is	almost	music.	It	flows	along	so	nicely.	I	have	nearly	caught	the
rhymes	myself.	Say	them	over	just	once	more,	and	then	I'll	have	them,	sure."
I	said	them	over.	Then	Mr.	—	—	—	said	them.	He	made	one	little	mistake,	which	I	corrected.	The	next	time
and	the	next	he	got	them	right.	Now	a	great	burden	seemed	to	tumble	from	my	shoulders.	That	torturing
jingle	departed	out	of	my	brain,	and	a	grateful	sense	of	rest	and	peace	descended	upon	me.	I	was	light-
hearted	enough	to	sing;	and	I	did	sing	for	half	an	hour,	straight	along,	as	we	went	jogging	homeward.	Then
my	freed	tongue	found	blessed	speech	again,	and	the	pent	talk	of	many	a	weary	hour	began	to	gush	and
flow.	It	flowed	on	and	on,	joyously,	jubilantly,	until	the	fountain	was	empty	and	dry.	As	I	wrung	my	friend's
hand	at	parting,	I	said:
"Haven't	we	had	a	royal	good	time!	But	now	I	remember,	you	haven't	said	a	word	for	two	hours.	Come,
come,	out	with	something!"
The	Rev.	Mr.	—	—	—	turned	a	lack-luster	eye	upon	me,	drew	a	deep	sigh,	and	said,	without	animation,
without	apparent	consciousness:
"Punch,	brothers,	punch	with	care!	Punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!"
A	pang	shot	through	me	as	I	said	to	myself,	"Poor	fellow,	poor	fellow!	he	has	got	it,	now."
I	did	not	see	Mr.	—	—	—	for	two	or	three	days	after	that.	Then,	on	Tuesday	evening,	he	staggered	into	my
presence	and	sank	dejectedly	into	a	seat.	He	was	pale,	worn;	he	was	a	wreck.	He	lifted	his	faded	eyes	to	my
face	and	said:
"Ah,	Mark,	it	was	a	ruinous	investment	that	I	made	in	those	heartless	rhymes.	They	have	ridden	me	like	a
nightmare,	day	and	night,	hour	after	hour,	to	this	very	moment.	Since	I	saw	you	I	have	suffered	the
torments	of	the	lost.	Saturday	evening	I	had	a	sudden	call,	by	telegraph,	and	took	the	night	train	for	Boston.
The	occasion	was	the	death	of	a	valued	old	friend	who	had	requested	that	I	should	preach	his	funeral
sermon.	I	took	my	seat	in	the	cars	and	set	myself	to	framing	the	discourse.	But	I	never	got	beyond	the
opening	paragraph;	for	then	the	train	started	and	the	car-wheels	began	their	'clack,	clack-clack-clack-clack!
clack-clack!	—	clack-clack-clack!'	and	right	away	those	odious	rhymes	fitted	themselves	to	that
accompaniment.	For	an	hour	I	sat	there	and	set	a	syllable	of	those	rhymes	to	every	separate	and	distinct
clack	the	car-wheels	made.	Why,	I	was	as	fagged	out,	then,	as	if	I	had	been	chopping	wood	all	day.	My	skull
was	splitting	with	headache.	It	seemed	to	me	that	I	must	go	mad	if	I	sat	there	any	longer;	so	I	undressed
and	went	to	bed.	I	stretched	myself	out	in	my	berth,	and	—	well,	you	know	what	the	result	was.	The	thing
went	right	along,	just	the	same.	'Clack-clack	clack,	a	blue	trip	slip,	clack-clack-clack,	for	an	eight	cent	fare;clack-clack-clack,	a	buff	trip	slip,	clack	clack-clack,	for	a	six-cent	fare,	and	so	on,	and	so	on,	and	so	on	punch
in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!'	Sleep?	Not	a	single	wink!	I	was	almost	a	lunatic	when	I	got	to	Boston.
Don't	ask	me	about	the	funeral.	I	did	the	best	I	could,	but	every	solemn	individual	sentence	was	meshed	and
tangled	and	woven	in	and	out	with	'Punch,	brothers,	punch	with	care,	punch	in	the	presence	of	the
passenjare.'	And	the	most	distressing	thing	was	that	my	delivery	dropped	into	the	undulating	rhythm	of
those	pulsing	rhymes,	and	I	could	actually	catch	absent-minded	people	nodding	time	to	the	swing	of	it	with
their	stupid	heads.	And,	Mark,	you	may	believe	it	or	not,	but	before	I	got	through	the	entire	assemblage
were	placidly	bobbing	their	heads	in	solemn	unison,	mourners,	undertaker,	and	all.	The	moment	I	had
finished,	I	fled	to	the	anteroom	in	a	state	bordering	on	frenzy.	Of	course	it	would	be	my	luck	to	find	a
sorrowing	and	aged	maiden	aunt	of	the	deceased	there,	who	had	arrived	from	Springfield	too	late	to	get	into
the	church.	She	began	to	sob,	and	said:
"'Oh,	oh,	he	is	gone,	he	is	gone,	and	I	didn't	see	him	before	he	died!'
"'Yes!'	I	said,	'he	is	gone,	he	is	gone,	he	is	gone	—	oh,	will	this	suffering	never	cease!'
"'You	loved	him,	then!	Oh,	you	too	loved	him!'
"'Loved	him!	Loved	who?'
"'Why,	my	poor	George!	my	poor	nephew!'
"'Oh	—	him!	Yes	—	oh,	yes,	yes.	Certainly	—	certainly.	Punch	—	punch	—	oh,	this	misery	will	kill	me!'
"'Bless	you!	bless	you,	sir,	for	these	sweet	words!	I,	too,	suffer	in	this	dear	loss.	Were	you	present	during	his
last	moments?'
"'Yes.	I	—	whose	last	moments?'
"'His.	The	dear	departed's.'
"'Yes!	Oh,	yes	—	yes	—	yes!	I	suppose	so,	I	think	so,	I	don't	know!	Oh,	certainly	—	I	was	there	I	was	there!'
"'Oh,	what	a	privilege!	what	a	precious	privilege!	And	his	last	words-	-oh,	tell	me,	tell	me	his	last	words!
What	did	he	say?'
"'He	said	—	he	said	—	oh,	my	head,	my	head,	my	head!	He	said	—	he	said	—	he	never	said	anything	but
Punch,	punch,	punch	in	the	presence	of	the	passenjare!	Oh,	leave	me,	madam!	In	the	name	of	all	that	is
generous,	leave	me	to	my	madness,	my	misery,	my	despair!	—	a	buff	trip	slip	for	a	six-cent	fare,	a	pink	trip
slip	for	a	three-cent	fare	—	endu	—	rance	can	no	fur	—	ther	go!	—	PUNCH	in	the	presence	of	the
passenjare!"
My	friend's	hopeless	eyes	rested	upon	mine	a	pregnant	minute,	and	then	he	said	impressively:
"Mark,	you	do	not	say	anything.	You	do	not	offer	me	any	hope.	But,	ah	me,	it	is	just	as	well	—	it	is	just	as
well.	You	could	not	do	me	any	good.	The	time	has	long	gone	by	when	words	could	comfort	me.	Something
tells	me	that	my	tongue	is	doomed	to	wag	forever	to	the	jigger	of	that	remorseless	jingle.	There	—	there	it	is
coming	on	me	again:	a	blue	trip	slip	for	an	eight-cent	fare,	a	buff	trip	slip	for	a	—	"
Thus	murmuring	faint	and	fainter,	my	friend	sank	into	a	peaceful	trance	and	forgot	his	sufferings	in	a
blessed	respite.
How	did	I	finally	save	him	from	an	asylum?	I	took	him	to	a	neighboring	university	and	made	him	discharge
the	burden	of	his	persecuting	rhymes	into	the	eager	ears	of	the	poor,	unthinking	students.	How	is	it	with
them,	now?	The	result	is	too	sad	to	tell.	Why	did	I	write	this	article?	It	was	for	a	worthy,	even	a	noble,
purpose.	It	was	to	warn	you,	reader,	if	you	should	came	across	those	merciless	rhymes,	to	avoid	them	—
avoid	them	as	you	would	a	pestilence.